So I've got a very special guest for
you, my co author and best friend,
Matt Housley.
It's good to see you.
>> It's great to be here, Joe.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you for the invitation.
>> Absolutely.
>> So yeah, we wrote this book together,
and that was kind of the starting
point ultimately for this course.
Maybe you could talk a bit about
what motivated us on the book.
>> Yeah.
So, fundamentals of data engineering was
written from a place of noticing
a gap in the book space and
the education of data engineering.
The materials were largely focused on
tools and technologies and didn't really
take a step back and attempt to define the
field of data engineering itself, the more
provide a mental framework for how to
operate and think like a data engineer.
And so, really, that's the perspective
that we entered into writing the book
from, is that we didn't really want
to write a tutorial on technology,
X, Y, or Z or cloud provider ABC or
whatever, but
really provide a first principles look
at the field of data engineering.
>> Yeah, fundamentally, I think our
starting audience, our core audience for
the book was people who had
a technical background but
wanted to move into data engineering.
We also kind of had various
secondary audiences.
So, for example, if you were a product
manager who was somewhat technical and
needed to work a lot with data engineers
on data products or data that was
embedded into your application, we also
thought this book would help you a lot.
Maybe not every piece of it, but
you would have a lot to learn there.
And I think the idea that the audience for
this course is very similar.
People moving into data engineering, but
also people who can benefit just from
a better understanding of the concepts and
a little bit of hands on exposure.
>> So we talked about the book, and
the learner's taking a course, obviously.
So how do these things tie together?
I think that fundamentally, the book and
this course complement each other.
You've already learned about
the data engineering lifecycle and
the undercurrents, but this course allows
you to apply that mental framework with
hands on examples that you're likely
to encounter in the real world.
And so for this course, we're using tools
and technologies and a very popular cloud,
AWS that will give you the hands
on experience to really tie again,
the concepts that you learned in the book
with a practical know how of hands
on labs and practice.
So we often get questions about
how to get into data engineering.
Maybe you can talk a little
bit about some advice for
people who want to get
into data engineering.
>> Yeah so I think, first of all,
it's very helpful to learn
just core data at concepts.
I think we frequently find that
even if you're coming from like,
a software development background,
you may not have enough experience with
kind of how analytics data is
used to immediately jump into it.
And so it's helpful to start with
just playing around with data,
even in something like Microsoft Excel, so
you know what tabular data looks like and
what kinds of things you
consume with data, and
then you can sort of expand
the circle from there.
I think one thing we always want
to emphasize is that getting into
data engineering, getting your first job,
is not just about learning
a particular stack of tools.
Rather, in those early stages,
it's good to get experience with a lot of
different tools to develop
general competence.
And then when you start getting into
roles, you're going to really focus down
on the tech stack within the company
where you're working, right?
>> Yeah, and I think that's where a book
like fundamentals of data engineering
really helps, is it provides you with the
mental framework to start thinking like
a data engineer.
And when you have that mental framework,
then you can basically put whatever
tools into the proper buckets and you'll
be able to function as a data engineer.
Well, Matt, this has been a great
discussion about the book and the course.
Maybe if you're up for it,
we can do a mock conversation where
I will be a data engineer and
we're going to talk to you, who is going
to play the role of a chief technology
officer at this fictitious e commerce
company that I've been hired to work at.
>> Joe and I, running ternary data
together and doing consulting,
had the privilege of working with a lot of
different companies from various domains,
ranging from technology companies to
operational and logistics companies and
in scale,
all the way down to ten person startups,
all the way up to like big
multinational enterprises.
And so in that process, we learned a lot
about the kinds of things that sea level
executives in general and chief technology
officers specifically care about when it
comes to engineering and
when it comes to data.
>> Well, thanks Matt.
Why don't we jump into the mock
conversation with the chief technology
officer and me, the data engineer?